---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: true
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: 'Psychotherapy (also called therapy or counseling) is a process of mutual collaboration between therapist and client to identify the underlying causes of distress and find more adaptive and satisfying alternatives. Although there are many approaches to psychotherapy, research continues to demonstrate that the most crucial aspect is a strong professional relationship between client and therapist that is based on understanding, empathy, and openness. Therefore, I focus on creating a non-judgmental atmosphere that allows for an exploration of an individual’s thoughts, feelings, relationships, and life patterns. Above all, it is important that you feel understood. '
datePublished: '2016-05-05T02:46:53.452Z'
dateModified: '2016-05-05T02:46:40.345Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-05-05-therapy.md
url: therapy/index.html
_type: Article

---
Psychotherapy (also called therapy or counseling) is a process of mutual collaboration between therapist and client to identify the underlying causes of distress and find more adaptive and satisfying alternatives. Although there are many approaches to psychotherapy, research continues to demonstrate that the most crucial aspect is a strong professional relationship between client and therapist that is based on understanding, empathy, and openness. Therefore, I focus on creating a non-judgmental atmosphere that allows for an exploration of an individual's thoughts, feelings, relationships, and life patterns. Above all, it is important that you feel understood. 

I tend to integrate several different approaches to therapy, including psychodynamic, cognitive-behavioral, and mindfulness-based techniques. However, my primary orientation is known as Emotion Focused Therapy, which stresses the importance of identifying and fully experiencing emotions in the context of a safe therapeutic relationship. In this approach, emotions are viewed as providing important information about what we need. However, we often have unhelpful emotional patterns or ways that we respond to our emotional experiences that interfere with getting our needs met. In therapy, you can expect me to assist you with experiencing and understanding your emotions so that you can use this information to help direct your life in a genuine and authentic manner. Therapy is not about me telling you what to do; it is about us working toward you knowing yourself so that you can decide what is best for you. Successful therapy requires the mutual effort of client and therapist.